Feature/2019 09 12 api first development with open api or swagger (#543)
ordina-jworks/ordina-jworks.github.io: _posts/2019-09-12-API-first-development-with-OpenAPI-or-Swagger.md

8.[Serverless on AWS: OpenAPI, API Gateway Lambda and SAM](#serverless-on-aws-openapi-api-gateway-lambda-and-sam)  
9.[Springfox](#code-first-with-springfox)   
10.[Conclusion](#conclusion)

# Intro
* I'll start of with a lecture about API first development and it's advantages.([Jump to section](#api-first-development---why-how-and-what))
* We will discover how to visualize our API specs. ([Jump to section](#api-first-development-with-openapiswagger))  
* Generate a postman collection from your OpenAPI definition. ([Jump to section](#integrating-with-postman))   
* Next I'll show you how to generate code that is completely compliant with your API specs. ([Jump to section](#openapi-generator-generate-api-compliant-code))
* We then dive into how to integrate this in your build process by using maven or gradle plugins. ([Jump to section](#integrating-with-your-build-process-maven-or-gradle-plugin))
* To finish it up I'll demonstrate how to use it in a cloud native serverless product with `AWS SAM` and `AWS Lambda`. ([Jump to section](#serverless-on-aws-openapi-api-gateway-lambda-and-sam))
* Wrapping it up with a conclusion.

# API first development - Why, how and what

> > Great communication is key to great software engineering.

Reviewer: A little intro about the concept of API economy would be nice. 
For what stands the abbreviation.

That also goes for applications and services.
If your applications cannot communicate properly, you'll never be able to expose the functionality that is key to a good product.

> 

Reviewer: Good list, you can add stateless services

Author: How would I relate that to the need of having a good API?

Reviewer: Maybe it's overkill nvm it

We also see the following trends in software engineering:
* **Shift towards the cloud.**  
Instead of big monolitic applications we are building lot's of smaller (micro)services.
All communication between those services goes through the API.

* **Multiple frontend applications use the same backend.**  
Often these applications are created by separate teams.

* **API carry business value.**  

> Yes, there is money in your API.

Reviewer: use double space to begin a new line

An API exposes the functionality of your product.
A good API allows user to integrate with your product with ease.
Thus making your product a great choice.

> In all of the cases a above there is value (even money!) in good communication between services.

Reviewer: scratch the (even money!)

And that's why you should practice API first development.
Put your communication first!

> > API first development makes a clear API definition the first priority

Reviewer: The first priority in your API first development story is a clear API definition

> In all of the cases a above there is value in good communication between services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In all of the cases above, there is value in good communication between services.
```

***How can I practice API first development?***

> * Understand that the API is the interface for your application.  

Reviewer: Rephrase it in to more of story. 
for ex. 
Defining APIs gives us the opportunity to expose our application's functionality and create bridges between our provider and consumer.

Author: I like the way you phrased it. 
Which part do you want me to rewrite exactly?

It is the intersection where multiple services join hands to couple there functionality.

> * The first step is to design your API.

Reviewer: Use more comma's, you are hacking your sentences now and it doesn't read fluently.

The implementation comes next.
This will allow teams to develop their applications separately because they both know and understand how communication between the services will happen.
The contract between services is set.

> > API first development allows teams to develop separately against a common interface, the API.

Reviewer: Leave 'the API' out

> Now that we understand the importance of and value of API first design let's see how the Swagger/OpenAPI spec can help you with that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we understand the importance of and value of API first design, let's see how the Swagger/OpenAPI spec can help you with that.
```

> Now that we understand the importance of and value of API first design let's see how the Swagger/OpenAPI spec can help you with that.

Reviewer: Use we or you format, not both

Basically there are two approaches:
* Top-down aka Design First
* Bottom-up aka Code First

To quote `Swagger.io`:
> Design First: The plan is converted to a human and machine readable contract, such as a Swagger document, from which the code is built.  

> Code First: Based on the business plan, API is directly coded, from which a human or machine readable document, such as a Swagger document can be generated.

In this blog post I am using the Top-down Design First approach to facilitate API first development.
In the last paragraph of this blog I'll briefly show an example of a Code First approach with `Springfox`.

# API design: an example
Suppose that we, ***Ordina*** are hosting a conference where multiple technical and agile sessions will be given.
Users can check session information and register for sessions.
The backend service is accessed by a web application and two mobile apps.

<div style="text-align: center;">
  <img src="/img/2019-09-12-API-first-development-with-OpenAPI-or-Swagger/design.png" width="40%" height="40%" target="_blank">
</div>

The applications are created by different teams and they all embrace the **API first** approach.

> They read this blog and realised that by agreeing on the common interface first they could develop separately without impacting each other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They read this blog and realised that by agreeing on the common interface first, they could develop separately without impacting each other.
```

So hooray for API first development!

# API first development with OpenAPI/Swagger
Let's continue with creating the backend application.

The functional analysts and a couple of developers of the team are sitting together to agree on how the API should be defined.
* A client should be able to fetch all sessions via the API
* A client should be able to create a new session via the API

This is a crucial part of the API first mindset.
We need to clearly define and communicate the API before starting to implement.
Designing an API is easier when you can visualise the API.
Let's bring in the OpenAPI spec.

> The OpenAPI specification allows you to define your API in a descriptive language (JSON or Yaml) and nicely visualise it

> Note: If I speak about OAS (OpenAPI Specification) instead of OpenAPI/Swagger specification.  

Reviewer: Rephrase what you mean here

Let's now use OAS to help us with our API First approach and design our API.

> Let me introduce you to [https://editor.swagger.io](https://editor.swagger.io){:target="_blank"}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let me introduce you to [https://editor.swagger.io](https://editor.swagger.io){:target="_blank"}, a portal to visualise...
```

A portal to visualise your OAS.
Easy to use and offering all the functionality we need for this example.

> I'll keep it simple and create the OAS for the API exposing the endpoint where consumers of the API can fetch all sessions of the conference.

Reviewer: I'll keep it simple, we will create the OAS for exposing the endpoint to let consumers fetch the sessions of the conference

The OAS allows you to use JSON or Yaml to describe your API.

<div style="text-align: center;">
  <img src="/img/2019-09-12-API-first-development-with-OpenAPI-or-Swagger/swagger-layout.png" width="100%" height="100%">
</div>

Find the descriptive yaml via [this](https://gist.github.com/Nxtra/8ff9a7fd33186309e909df8f5a20cb28){:target="_blank"} gist.

As you can see from the example the OpenAPI specification is very readable.
Even if it's new to you, you should be able to deduct what is written in the yaml.
You like looking in the yaml?
Sure you don't! 
There is this great visualisation to the right of it.
This very clearly visualises what your API can do.
Clear visualisations mean clear communication. 

The API in the example is small.
When describing a whole real-world API, the file might become quite large.
But that's no problem.
The OpenAPI spec allows you to split your definitions over multiple files which you can reference from within other files.

> Takeaways: Easy descriptive language & great visualisations

You want to expose your beautiful visualisation to your clients.

> They shouldn't have to past a `yaml` file in a window of there browser all the time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They shouldn't have to paste a `yaml` file in a window of there browser all the time.
```

OpenAPI Generator is a hugely popular [repository](https://github.com/OpenAPITools/openapi-generator){:target="_blank"} on github.
It allows you to generate code that is completely in line with your API spec since you create it automatically from this specification.

On `mac` you can just install the `openapi-generator-cli` by installing it via brew.

```bash
brew install openapi-generator-cli
```

You can also checkout the github project, build it and use that jar.

You have the cli installed and created a directory which contains your api.yml file.

<div style="text-align: center;">
  <img src="/img/2019-09-12-API-first-development-with-OpenAPI-or-Swagger/repo-dir.png" width="100%" height="100%">
</div>

Let's generate the code!

You could generate a whole projec.

```bash
openapi-generator generate -i api.yml -g java
```

That would generate a whole Java project with a bunch of files.
Let's start a little smaller.

If you followed along clear the directory with
```bash
find . ! -name api.yml -delete
```

For starters we only want to generate the model classes:
```bash
openapi-generator generate -i api.yml -g java -Dmodels
```

> Models here refers to your DTO's (Data Transfer Objects).

Author: Voorstel: Models here refers to the resources of your API. In the code we'll typically call them DTO's (Data Transfer Objects)

> Models here refers to your DTO's (Data Transfer Objects).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Models here refers to your DTO's (Data Transfer Objects) or Resources.
```
:D

After you deserialize the incoming request you can validate it against your API specs:
```java
Set<ConstraintViolation<SessionDto>> violations = Validation.buildDefaultValidatorFactory().getValidator().validate(sessionDto);
```

If some violations are detected you can return them wrapped in a 400 response.
You could easily check this functionality by writing a unit test that:
* checks that no violations are found in the case of a valid request body
* checks that violations are found in case a payload is send which is not compliant with the API specs.

The same goes for the responses. 
In your code validate the response against your API specifications by using the `responseDto` that was generated from the specs:
```java
Set<ConstraintViolation<CreateSessionResponseDto>> violations = Validation.buildDefaultValidatorFactory().getValidator().validate(response);
```
If this finds any violations throw a `ConstraintValidationException`.

Again a unit test can validate that:
* no violations are found when the response is validated
* no exception is thrown

# Serverless on AWS: OpenAPI, API Gateway Lambda and SAM

> It's fairly easy to create an API Gateway from a openAPI specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's fairly easy to create an API Gateway from an openAPI specification.
```

In the API Gateway console under *Create* select *Import from Swagger or Open API 3* and upload your specification.

<div style="text-align: center;">
  <img src="/img/2019-09-12-API-first-development-with-OpenAPI-or-Swagger/create-apigateway-via-ui.gif" width="100%" height="100%">
</div>

Of course we want to use the specification programmatically.
Suppose we create our backend service with AWS Lambda (serverless).

> I'll keep to AWS native tools and will use SAM to deploy the Lambda functions and my API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I'll be using AWS native tools and use SAM to deploy the Lambda functions and my API.
```

SAM allows you to use an OpenAPI specification to create your API Gateway.

> In your SAM template define the API Gateway resource by referencing you OAS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your SAM template define the API Gateway resource by referencing your OAS.
```

```yaml
  ConferenceApiGateway: 
    Type: AWS::Serverless::Api
    Properties:
      StageName: dev
      DefinitionBody:
        Fn::Transform:
          Name: AWS::Include
          Parameters:
            Location: ./openapi.yaml
```

In the Lambda function resource specify that the lambda should be triggered from this API Gateway.

```yaml
  GetAllSessionsFunction:
    Type: AWS::Serverless::Function
    Properties:
      ...
      Events:
        CreateSessionApi:
          Type: Api
          Properties:
            RestApiId: !Ref "ConferenceApiGateway"
            Path: /sessions
            Method: GET
```

> And add the `x-amazon-apigateway-integration` extension in your `api.yml` to specify how the api has to integrate with the backend Lambda service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
Add the `x-amazon-apigateway-integration` extension in your `api.yml` to specify how the api has to integrate with the backend Lambda service.
```

```yaml
paths:
  "/sessions":
    get:
      ...
      x-amazon-apigateway-integration:
        type: "aws_proxy"
        httpMethod: "POST"
        uri:
          Fn::Sub: arn:aws:apigateway:${AWS::Region}:lambda:path/2015-03-31/functions/${GetAllSessionsFunction.Arn}/invocations
```

> For a the full template including the Lambda resources look in this [gist](https://gist.github.com/Nxtra/3600ccab85d92faebf3c465701ba7c21){:target="_blank"}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a full template example including the Lambda resources, check out this [gist](https://gist.github.com/Nxtra/3600ccab85d92faebf3c465701ba7c21){:target="_blank"}.
```

# Code First with Springfox
I promised you an example of a code first approach.
Here I set up a Spring boot application with Springfox dependencies.

```xml
<dependencies>
    <dependency>
        <groupId>io.springfox</groupId>
        <artifactId>springfox-swagger2</artifactId>
        <version>${springfox.version}</version>
    </dependency>

    <dependency>
        <groupId>io.springfox</groupId>
        <artifactId>springfox-swagger-ui</artifactId>
        <version>${springfox.version}</version>
    </dependency>

    <dependency>
        <groupId>io.springfox</groupId>
        <artifactId>springfox-bean-validators</artifactId>
        <version>${springfox.version}</version>
    </dependency>
</dependencies>
```

> Implementing the API and using the write annotations leads to an endpoint of your application on which your API spec is visualised: `/swagger-ui.html`

Reviewer: write or right?

Author: yeah right :D
